README.md, before:

<div align="center">
	<a  href="https://www.storyblok.com?utm_source=github.com&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=storyblok-js-client"  align="center">
		<img  src="https://a.storyblok.com/f/88751/1776x360/4d075611c6/sb-js-sdk.png"  alt="Storyblok Logo">
	</a>
	<h1 align="center">Universal JavaScript SDK for Storyblok's API</h1>
	<p align="center">This client is a thin wrapper for the <a href="http://www.storyblok.com?utm_source=github.com&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=storyblok-js-client" target="_blank">Storyblok</a> API's to use in Node.js and the browser.</p>
</div>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://npmjs.com/package/storyblok-js-client">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/storyblok-js-client/latest.svg?style=flat-square&color=09b3af" alt="Storyblok JS Client" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://npmjs.com/package/storyblok-js-client" rel="nofollow">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/dt/storyblok-js-client.svg?style=appveyor&color=09b3af" alt="npm">
  </a>
  <a href="https://discord.gg/jKrbAMz">
   <img src="https://img.shields.io/discord/700316478792138842?label=Join%20Our%20Discord%20Community&style=appveyor&logo=discord&color=09b3af">
   </a>
  <a href="https://twitter.com/intent/follow?screen_name=storyblok">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Follow-%40storyblok-09b3af?style=appveyor&logo=twitter" alt="Follow @Storyblok" />
  </a><br/>
  <a href="https://app.storyblok.com/#!/signup?utm_source=github.com&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=storyblok-js-client">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Try%20Storyblok-Free-09b3af?style=appveyor&logo=data:image/png;base64,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" alt="Follow @Storyblok" />
  </a>
</p>

## 🚀 Usage

### Install

```sh
npm install storyblok-js-client # yarn add storyblok-js-client
```

### How to use it

#### Using the Content Deliver API

```javascript
// 1. Require the Storyblok client
const StoryblokClient = require('storyblok-js-client')

// 2. Initialize the client with the preview token
// from your space dashboard at https://app.storyblok.com
let Storyblok = new StoryblokClient({
  accessToken: 'xf5dRMMjltLzKOcNgMaU9Att'
})
```

#### Using the Content Management API

```javascript
// 1. Require the Storyblok client
const StoryblokClient = require('storyblok-js-client')
const spaceId = 12345

// 2. Initialize the client with the oauth token
// from the my account area at https://app.storyblok.com
let Storyblok = new StoryblokClient({
  oauthToken: 'YOUR_OAUTH_TOKEN'
})

Storyblok.post(`spaces/${spaceId}/stories`, {story: {name: 'xy', slug: 'xy'}})
Storyblok.put(`spaces/${spaceId}/stories/1`, {story: {name: 'xy', slug: 'xy'}})
Storyblok.delete(`spaces/${spaceId}/stories/1`, null)
```

#### Using the RichTextResolver separately

You can import and use the `RichTextResolver` directly:

```js
// you should need to use the format when import
// es - when you are in EsModules environment (like React, Vue apps, for example)
// cjs - when you are in NodeJS environment
// standalone - when you are in Browser environment directly

import RichTextResolver from 'storyblok-js-client/dist/rich-text-resolver.es'
// const RichTextResolver = require('storyblok-js-client/dist/rich-text-resolver.cjs')

const resolver = new RichTextResolver()

const html = resolver.render(data)
```

#### Using from the Browser directly

This package has a standalone version that contains all dependencies and you can use it to import and use our package inside the browser.

```html
<!-- This import makes the StoryblokClient class available globally -->
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/storyblok-js-client@4.0.5/dist/index.standalone.js"></script>

<!-- This import makes the RichTextResolver class available globally -->
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/storyblok-js-client@4.0.5/dist/rich-text-resolver.standalone.js"></script>
```

If you want a bundle with Babel (for non-es6 browsers):

```html
<!-- This import makes the StoryblokClient class available globally -->
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/storyblok-js-client@4.0.5/dist/es5/index.standalone.js"></script>

<!-- This import makes the RichTextResolver class available globally -->
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/storyblok-js-client@4.0.5/dist/es5/rich-text-resolver.standalone.js"></script>
```

#### Note about use of Babel

This package doesn't use the Babel by default in the final bundle. So, if you want a Babel transpiled file, you need to set the `es5/` prefix on import:

```js
// for CommonJS environments (NodeJS)
const StoryblokClient = require('storyblok-js-client/dist/es5/index.cjs')

// for EsModules environments
import StoryblokClient from 'storyblok-js-client/dist/es5/index.es'
```

### Axios removal

We removed our dependency on axios on version 4.3.0. If you want to continue using our SDK with axios, please refer to version @4.2.1.
The proxy feature was also removed in this version.

### Unfetch

As we removed Axios, some developers would want to use the SDK under node environment. So we added unfetch to deal with fetch until Node brings the fetch API natively.

## Documentation

#### Class `Storyblok`

**Parameters**

- `config` Object
  - `accessToken` String, The preview token you can find in your space dashboard at https://app.storyblok.com
  - `cache` Object
    - `type` String, `none` or `memory`
  - (`responseInterceptor` Function, optional - You can pass a function and return the result. For security reasons, Storyblok client will deal only with the response interceptor.)
  - (`region` String, optional)
  - (`https` Boolean, optional)
  - (`rateLimit` Integer, optional, defaults to 3 for management api and 5 for cdn api)
  - (`timeout` Integer, optional)
  - (`maxRetries` Integer, optional, defaults to 5)
  - (`richTextSchema` Object, optional - your custom schema for RichTextRenderer)
- (`endpoint` String, optional)

#### Activating request cache

The Storyblok client comes with a caching mechanism.
When initializing the Storyblok client you can define a cache provider for caching the requests in memory.
To clear the cache you can call `Storyblok.flushCache()` or activate the automatic clear with clear: 'auto'.

```javascript
let Storyblok = new StoryblokClient({
  accessToken: 'xf5dRMMjltLzKOcNgMaU9Att',
  cache: {
    clear: 'auto',
    type: 'memory'
  }
})
```
#### Passing response interceptor

The Storyblok client lets you pass a function that serves as a response interceptor to it.
Usage:

```javascript
let Storyblok = new StoryblokClient({
  accessToken: 'xf5dRMMjltLzKOcNgMaU9Att',
  cache: {
    clear: 'auto',
    type: 'memory'
  },
  responseInterceptor: (response) => {
    // one can handle status codes and more with the response
    if (response.status === 200) {
      // handle your status here
    }
    // ALWAYS return the response
    return response
  },
})
```

### Removing response interceptor

One can remove the reponseInterceptor at any time, by calling the function `ejectInterceptor` as shown below:

```javascript
Storyblok.ejectInterceptor()
```

### Method `Storyblok#get`

With this method you can get single or multiple items. The multiple items are paginated and you will receive 25 items per page by default. If you want to get all items at once use the `getAll` method.

**Parameters**
- `[return]` Promise, Object `response`
- `path` String, Path (can be `cdn/stories`, `cdn/tags`, `cdn/datasources`, `cdn/links`)
- `options` Object, Options can be found in the [API documentation](https://www.storyblok.com/docs/api/content-delivery?utm_source=github.com&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=storyblok-js-client).

**Example**

```javascript
Storyblok
  .get('cdn/stories/home', {
    version: 'draft'
  })
  .then((response) => {
    console.log(response);
  })
  .catch((error) => {
    console.log(error);
  })
```

#### Method `Storyblok#getAll`

With this method you can get all items at once.

**Parameters**
- `[return]` Promise, Array of entities
- `path` String, Path (can be `cdn/stories`, `cdn/tags`, `cdn/datasources`, `cdn/links`)
- `options` Object, Options can be found in the [API documentation](https://www.storyblok.com/docs/api/content-delivery?utm_source=github.com&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=storyblok-js-client).
- `entity` String, Storyblok entity like stories, links or datasource. It's optional.

**Example**

```javascript
Storyblok
  .getAll('cdn/stories', {
    version: 'draft'
  })
  .then((stories) => {
    console.log(stories); // an array
  })
  .catch((error) => {
    console.log(error);
  })
```

#### Method `Storyblok#post` (only management api)

**Parameters**
- `[return]` Promise, Object `response`
- `path` String, Path (`spaces/*`, ... see more at https://www.storyblok.com/docs/management-api/authentication?utm_source=github.com&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=storyblok-js-client)
- `payload` Object

**Example**

```javascript
Storyblok
  .post('spaces/12345/stories', {
    story: {name 'xy', slug: 'xy'}
  })
  .then((response) => {
    console.log(response);
  })
  .catch((error) => {
    console.log(error);
  })
```

#### Method `Storyblok#put` (only management api)

**Parameters**
- `[return]` Promise, Object `response`
- `path` String, Path (`spaces/*`, ... see more at https://www.storyblok.com/docs/management-api/authentication?utm_source=github.com&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=storyblok-js-client)
- `payload` Object

**Example**

```javascript
Storyblok
  .put('spaces/12345/stories/1', {
    story: {name 'xy', slug: 'xy'}
  })
  .then((response) => {
    console.log(response);
  })
  .catch((error) => {
    console.log(error);
  })
```

#### Method `Storyblok#delete` (only management api)

**Parameters**
- `[return]` Promise, Object `response`
- `path` String, Path (`spaces/*`, ... see more at https://www.storyblok.com/docs/management-api/authentication)
- `payload` Object

**Example**

```javascript
Storyblok
  .delete('spaces/12345/stories/1', null)
  .then((response) => {
    console.log(response);
  })
  .catch((error) => {
    console.log(error);
  })
```

#### Method `Storyblok#flushCache`

**Parameters**

- `[return]` Promise, Object returns the Storyblok client

**Example**

```javascript
Storyblok.flushCache()
```

#### Method `Storyblok#setComponentResolver`

**Parameters**

- `callback` Function, Render function to render components of the richtext field

Option 1: Use a switch case definition to render different components:

```javascript
Storyblok.setComponentResolver((component, blok) => {
  switch(component) {
    case 'my-custom-component':
      return `<div class="my-component-class">${blok.text}</div>`
      break;
    case 'my-header':
      return `<h1 class="my-class">${blok.title}</h1>`
      break;
    default:
      return 'Resolver not defined'
  }
})
```

Option 2: Dynamically render a component (Example in Vue.js):

```javascript
Storyblok.setComponentResolver((component, blok) => {
  return `<component :blok='${JSON.stringify(blok)}'
                     is="${component}"></component>`
})
```

#### Method `Storyblok#richTextResolver.render`

**Parameters**
- `[return]` String, Rendered html of a richtext field
- `data` Richtext object, An object with a `content` (an array of nodes) field.

**Example**

```javascript
Storyblok.richTextResolver.render(blok.richtext)
```

### Code examples

#### Filter by content type values and path

~~~javascript
const StoryblokClient = require('storyblok-js-client')

let client = new StoryblokClient({
  accessToken: 'zlRONoLBKrilxkz2k6fYuwtt'
})

// Filter by boolean value in content type
client.get('cdn/stories', {
    version: 'draft',
    filter_query: {
      is_featured: {
        in: true
      }
    }
  }).then((res) => {
    console.log(res.data.stories)
  })

// Get all news and author contents
client.get('cdn/stories', {
    version: 'draft',
    filter_query: {
      component: {
        in: 'news,author'
      }
    }
  }).then((res) => {
    console.log(res.data.stories)
  })

// Get all content from the news folder
client.get('cdn/stories', {
    version: 'draft',
    starts_with: 'news/'
  }).then((res) => {
    console.log(res.data.stories)
  })
~~~

#### Download all content from Storyblok

Following a code example using the storyblok-js-client to backup all content on your local filesystem inside a 'backup' folder.

~~~javascript
const StoryblokClient = require('storyblok-js-client')
const fs = require('fs')

let client = new StoryblokClient({
  accessToken: 'WcdDcNgDm59K72EbsQg8Lgtt'
})

let lastPage = 1
let getStories = (page) => {
  client.get('cdn/stories', {
      version: 'draft',
      per_page: 25,
      page: page
    }).then((res) => {

    let stories = res.data.stories
    stories.forEach((story) => {
      fs.writeFile('./backup/' + story.id + '.json', JSON.stringify(story), (err) => {
        if (err) throw err

        console.log(story.full_slug + ' backed up')
      })
    })

    let total = res.total
    lastPage = Math.ceil((res.total / res.perPage))

    if (page <= lastPage) {
      page++
      getStories(page)
    }
  })
}

getStories(1)
~~~

### How to define a custom schema for the RichTextRenderer

To define how to add some classes to specific html attributes rendered by the rich text renderer, you need your own schema definition. With this new schema, you can pass it as the `richTextSchema` option when instantiate the `StoryblokClient` class. You **must** follow the [default schema](https://github.com/storyblok/storyblok-js-client/blob/master/source/schema.js) to do this.

Below, you can check an example:

~~~javascript
const StoryblokClient = require('storyblok-js-client')

// the default schema copied and updated
const MySchema = require('./my-schema')

let client = new StoryblokClient({
  accessToken: 'WcdDcNgDm59K72EbsQg8Lgtt',
  richTextSchema: MySchema
})

client.richTextResolver.render(data)
~~~

If you just want to change the way a specific tag is rendered you can import the default schema and extend it. Following an example that will render headlines with classes:

Instead of `<p>Normal headline</p><h3><span class="margin-bottom-fdsafdsada">Styled headline</span></h3>` it will render `<p>Normal headline</p><h3 class="margin-bottom-fdsafdsada">Styled headline</h3>`.

~~~javascript

const RichTextResolver = require('storyblok-js-client/dist/richTextResolver')
const MySchema = require('storyblok-js-client/dist/schema')

MySchema.nodes.heading = function(node) {
  let attrs = {}

  if (node.content &&
      node.content.length === 1 &&
      node.content[0].marks &&
      node.content[0].marks.length === 1 &&
      node.content[0].marks[0].type === 'styled') {
    attrs = node.content[0].marks[0].attrs
    delete node.content[0].marks
  }

  return {
    tag: [{
      tag: `h${node.attrs.level}`,
      attrs: attrs
    }]
  }
}

let rteResolver = new RichTextResolver(MySchema)
let rendered = rteResolver.render({
  "content": [
    {
      "content": [
        {
          "text": "Normal headline",
          "type": "text"
        }
      ],
      "type": "paragraph"
    },
    {
      "attrs": {
        "level": 3
      },
      "content": [
        {
          "marks": [
            {
              "attrs": {
                "class": "margin-bottom-fdsafdsada"
              },
              "type": "styled"
            }
          ],
          "text": "Styled headline",
          "type": "text"
        }
      ],
      "type": "heading"
    }
  ],
  "type": "doc"
})

console.log(rendered)
~~~

## 🔗 Related Links

* **[Storyblok & Javascript on GitHub](https://github.com/search?q=org%3Astoryblok+topic%3Ajavascript)**: Check all of our Javascript open source repos;
* **[Technology Hub](https://www.storyblok.com/technologies?utm_source=github.com&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=storyblok-js-client)**: We prepared technology hubs so that you can find selected beginner tutorials, videos, boilerplates, and even cheatsheets all in one place;
* **[Storyblok CLI](https://github.com/storyblok/storyblok)**: A simple CLI for scaffolding Storyblok projects and fieldtypes.

## ℹ️ More Resources

### Support

* Bugs or Feature Requests? [Submit an issue](../../../issues/new);

* Do you have questions about Storyblok or you need help? [Join our Discord Community](https://discord.gg/jKrbAMz).

### Contributing

Please see our [contributing guidelines](https://github.com/storyblok/.github/blob/master/contributing.md) and our [code of conduct](https://www.storyblok.com/trust-center#code-of-conduct?utm_source=github.com&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=storyblok-js-client).
This project use [semantic-release](https://semantic-release.gitbook.io/semantic-release/) for generate new versions by using commit messages and we use the Angular Convention to naming the commits. Check [this question](https://semantic-release.gitbook.io/semantic-release/support/faq#how-can-i-change-the-type-of-commits-that-trigger-a-release) about it in semantic-release FAQ.

Commit message:

feat(int-123): node and web compatibility
- Added node-fetch library to run under Node's environment.
- Added an extra configuration to rollup.config.
- README update.
- Removed unused async word from index.
- Removed unfetch.

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
	<a  href="https://www.storyblok.com?utm_source=github.com&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=storyblok-js-client"  align="center">
		<img  src="https://a.storyblok.com/f/88751/1776x360/4d075611c6/sb-js-sdk.png"  alt="Storyblok Logo">
	</a>
	<h1 align="center">Universal JavaScript SDK for Storyblok's API</h1>
	<p align="center">This client is a thin wrapper for the <a href="http://www.storyblok.com?utm_source=github.com&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=storyblok-js-client" target="_blank">Storyblok</a> API's to use in Node.js and the browser.</p>
</div>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://npmjs.com/package/storyblok-js-client">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/storyblok-js-client/latest.svg?style=flat-square&color=09b3af" alt="Storyblok JS Client" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://npmjs.com/package/storyblok-js-client" rel="nofollow">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/dt/storyblok-js-client.svg?style=appveyor&color=09b3af" alt="npm">
  </a>
  <a href="https://discord.gg/jKrbAMz">
   <img src="https://img.shields.io/discord/700316478792138842?label=Join%20Our%20Discord%20Community&style=appveyor&logo=discord&color=09b3af">
   </a>
  <a href="https://twitter.com/intent/follow?screen_name=storyblok">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Follow-%40storyblok-09b3af?style=appveyor&logo=twitter" alt="Follow @Storyblok" />
  </a><br/>
  <a href="https://app.storyblok.com/#!/signup?utm_source=github.com&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=storyblok-js-client">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Try%20Storyblok-Free-09b3af?style=appveyor&logo=data:image/png;base64,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" alt="Follow @Storyblok" />
  </a>
</p>

## 🚀 Usage

### Install

```sh
npm install storyblok-js-client # yarn add storyblok-js-client
```

### How to use it

#### Using the Content Deliver API

```javascript
// 1. Require the Storyblok client
const StoryblokClient = require('storyblok-js-client')

// 2. Initialize the client with the preview token
// from your space dashboard at https://app.storyblok.com
let Storyblok = new StoryblokClient({
  accessToken: 'xf5dRMMjltLzKOcNgMaU9Att'
})
```

#### Using the Content Management API

```javascript
// 1. Require the Storyblok client
const StoryblokClient = require('storyblok-js-client')
const spaceId = 12345

// 2. Initialize the client with the oauth token
// from the my account area at https://app.storyblok.com
let Storyblok = new StoryblokClient({
  oauthToken: 'YOUR_OAUTH_TOKEN'
})

Storyblok.post(`spaces/${spaceId}/stories`, {story: {name: 'xy', slug: 'xy'}})
Storyblok.put(`spaces/${spaceId}/stories/1`, {story: {name: 'xy', slug: 'xy'}})
Storyblok.delete(`spaces/${spaceId}/stories/1`, null)
```

#### Using the RichTextResolver separately

You can import and use the `RichTextResolver` directly:

```js
// you should need to use the format when import
// es - when you are in EsModules environment (like React, Vue apps, for example)
// cjs - when you are in NodeJS environment
// standalone - when you are in Browser environment directly

import RichTextResolver from 'storyblok-js-client/dist/rich-text-resolver.es'
// const RichTextResolver = require('storyblok-js-client/dist/rich-text-resolver.cjs')

const resolver = new RichTextResolver()

const html = resolver.render(data)
```

#### Using from the Browser directly

This package has a standalone version that contains all dependencies and you can use it to import and use our package inside the browser.

```html
<!-- This import makes the StoryblokClient class available globally -->
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/storyblok-js-client@4.0.5/dist/index.standalone.js"></script>

<!-- This import makes the RichTextResolver class available globally -->
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/storyblok-js-client@4.0.5/dist/rich-text-resolver.standalone.js"></script>
```

If you want a bundle with Babel (for non-es6 browsers):

```html
<!-- This import makes the StoryblokClient class available globally -->
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/storyblok-js-client@4.0.5/dist/es5/index.standalone.js"></script>

<!-- This import makes the RichTextResolver class available globally -->
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/storyblok-js-client@4.0.5/dist/es5/rich-text-resolver.standalone.js"></script>
```

#### Note about use of Babel

This package doesn't use the Babel by default in the final bundle. So, if you want a Babel transpiled file, you need to set the `es5/` prefix on import:

```js
// for CommonJS environments (NodeJS)
const StoryblokClient = require('storyblok-js-client/dist/es5/index.cjs')

// for EsModules environments
import StoryblokClient from 'storyblok-js-client/dist/es5/index.es'
```

### Axios removal

We removed our dependency on axios on version 4.4.0. If you want to continue using our SDK with axios, please refer to version @4.2.1.
The proxy feature was also removed in this version.

### Node fetch

As we removed Axios, some developers would want to use the SDK under Node's environment. So we added [node-fetch](https://www.npmjs.com/package/node-fetch) to deal with fetch, AbortController and XMLHttpRequest until Node brings the fetch API natively.
As a part of our efforts to make the SDK more lightweight to web users, under the hood, the import of node-fetch is conditional depending either the app is under Node's environment or not.

## Documentation

#### Class `Storyblok`

**Parameters**

- `config` Object
  - `accessToken` String, The preview token you can find in your space dashboard at https://app.storyblok.com
  - `cache` Object
    - `type` String, `none` or `memory`
  - (`responseInterceptor` Function, optional - You can pass a function and return the result. For security reasons, Storyblok client will deal only with the response interceptor.)
  - (`region` String, optional)
  - (`https` Boolean, optional)
  - (`rateLimit` Integer, optional, defaults to 3 for management api and 5 for cdn api)
  - (`timeout` Integer, optional)
  - (`maxRetries` Integer, optional, defaults to 5)
  - (`richTextSchema` Object, optional - your custom schema for RichTextRenderer)
- (`endpoint` String, optional)

#### Activating request cache

The Storyblok client comes with a caching mechanism.
When initializing the Storyblok client you can define a cache provider for caching the requests in memory.
To clear the cache you can call `Storyblok.flushCache()` or activate the automatic clear with clear: 'auto'.

```javascript
let Storyblok = new StoryblokClient({
  accessToken: 'xf5dRMMjltLzKOcNgMaU9Att',
  cache: {
    clear: 'auto',
    type: 'memory'
  }
})
```
#### Passing response interceptor

The Storyblok client lets you pass a function that serves as a response interceptor to it.
Usage:

```javascript
let Storyblok = new StoryblokClient({
  accessToken: 'xf5dRMMjltLzKOcNgMaU9Att',
  cache: {
    clear: 'auto',
    type: 'memory'
  },
  responseInterceptor: (response) => {
    // one can handle status codes and more with the response
    if (response.status === 200) {
      // handle your status here
    }
    // ALWAYS return the response
    return response
  },
})
```

### Removing response interceptor

One can remove the reponseInterceptor at any time, by calling the function `ejectInterceptor` as shown below:

```javascript
Storyblok.ejectInterceptor()
```

### Method `Storyblok#get`

With this method you can get single or multiple items. The multiple items are paginated and you will receive 25 items per page by default. If you want to get all items at once use the `getAll` method.

**Parameters**
- `[return]` Promise, Object `response`
- `path` String, Path (can be `cdn/stories`, `cdn/tags`, `cdn/datasources`, `cdn/links`)
- `options` Object, Options can be found in the [API documentation](https://www.storyblok.com/docs/api/content-delivery?utm_source=github.com&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=storyblok-js-client).

**Example**

```javascript
Storyblok
  .get('cdn/stories/home', {
    version: 'draft'
  })
  .then((response) => {
    console.log(response);
  })
  .catch((error) => {
    console.log(error);
  })
```

#### Method `Storyblok#getAll`

With this method you can get all items at once.

**Parameters**
- `[return]` Promise, Array of entities
- `path` String, Path (can be `cdn/stories`, `cdn/tags`, `cdn/datasources`, `cdn/links`)
- `options` Object, Options can be found in the [API documentation](https://www.storyblok.com/docs/api/content-delivery?utm_source=github.com&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=storyblok-js-client).
- `entity` String, Storyblok entity like stories, links or datasource. It's optional.

**Example**

```javascript
Storyblok
  .getAll('cdn/stories', {
    version: 'draft'
  })
  .then((stories) => {
    console.log(stories); // an array
  })
  .catch((error) => {
    console.log(error);
  })
```

#### Method `Storyblok#post` (only management api)

**Parameters**
- `[return]` Promise, Object `response`
- `path` String, Path (`spaces/*`, ... see more at https://www.storyblok.com/docs/management-api/authentication?utm_source=github.com&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=storyblok-js-client)
- `payload` Object

**Example**

```javascript
Storyblok
  .post('spaces/12345/stories', {
    story: {name 'xy', slug: 'xy'}
  })
  .then((response) => {
    console.log(response);
  })
  .catch((error) => {
    console.log(error);
  })
```

#### Method `Storyblok#put` (only management api)

**Parameters**
- `[return]` Promise, Object `response`
- `path` String, Path (`spaces/*`, ... see more at https://www.storyblok.com/docs/management-api/authentication?utm_source=github.com&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=storyblok-js-client)
- `payload` Object

**Example**

```javascript
Storyblok
  .put('spaces/12345/stories/1', {
    story: {name 'xy', slug: 'xy'}
  })
  .then((response) => {
    console.log(response);
  })
  .catch((error) => {
    console.log(error);
  })
```

#### Method `Storyblok#delete` (only management api)

**Parameters**
- `[return]` Promise, Object `response`
- `path` String, Path (`spaces/*`, ... see more at https://www.storyblok.com/docs/management-api/authentication)
- `payload` Object

**Example**

```javascript
Storyblok
  .delete('spaces/12345/stories/1', null)
  .then((response) => {
    console.log(response);
  })
  .catch((error) => {
    console.log(error);
  })
```

#### Method `Storyblok#flushCache`

**Parameters**

- `[return]` Promise, Object returns the Storyblok client

**Example**

```javascript
Storyblok.flushCache()
```

#### Method `Storyblok#setComponentResolver`

**Parameters**

- `callback` Function, Render function to render components of the richtext field

Option 1: Use a switch case definition to render different components:

```javascript
Storyblok.setComponentResolver((component, blok) => {
  switch(component) {
    case 'my-custom-component':
      return `<div class="my-component-class">${blok.text}</div>`
      break;
    case 'my-header':
      return `<h1 class="my-class">${blok.title}</h1>`
      break;
    default:
      return 'Resolver not defined'
  }
})
```

Option 2: Dynamically render a component (Example in Vue.js):

```javascript
Storyblok.setComponentResolver((component, blok) => {
  return `<component :blok='${JSON.stringify(blok)}'
                     is="${component}"></component>`
})
```

#### Method `Storyblok#richTextResolver.render`

**Parameters**
- `[return]` String, Rendered html of a richtext field
- `data` Richtext object, An object with a `content` (an array of nodes) field.

**Example**

```javascript
Storyblok.richTextResolver.render(blok.richtext)
```

### Code examples

#### Filter by content type values and path

~~~javascript
const StoryblokClient = require('storyblok-js-client')

let client = new StoryblokClient({
  accessToken: 'zlRONoLBKrilxkz2k6fYuwtt'
})

// Filter by boolean value in content type
client.get('cdn/stories', {
    version: 'draft',
    filter_query: {
      is_featured: {
        in: true
      }
    }
  }).then((res) => {
    console.log(res.data.stories)
  })

// Get all news and author contents
client.get('cdn/stories', {
    version: 'draft',
    filter_query: {
      component: {
        in: 'news,author'
      }
    }
  }).then((res) => {
    console.log(res.data.stories)
  })

// Get all content from the news folder
client.get('cdn/stories', {
    version: 'draft',
    starts_with: 'news/'
  }).then((res) => {
    console.log(res.data.stories)
  })
~~~

#### Download all content from Storyblok

Following a code example using the storyblok-js-client to backup all content on your local filesystem inside a 'backup' folder.

~~~javascript
const StoryblokClient = require('storyblok-js-client')
const fs = require('fs')

let client = new StoryblokClient({
  accessToken: 'WcdDcNgDm59K72EbsQg8Lgtt'
})

let lastPage = 1
let getStories = (page) => {
  client.get('cdn/stories', {
      version: 'draft',
      per_page: 25,
      page: page
    }).then((res) => {

    let stories = res.data.stories
    stories.forEach((story) => {
      fs.writeFile('./backup/' + story.id + '.json', JSON.stringify(story), (err) => {
        if (err) throw err

        console.log(story.full_slug + ' backed up')
      })
    })

    let total = res.total
    lastPage = Math.ceil((res.total / res.perPage))

    if (page <= lastPage) {
      page++
      getStories(page)
    }
  })
}

getStories(1)
~~~

### How to define a custom schema for the RichTextRenderer

To define how to add some classes to specific html attributes rendered by the rich text renderer, you need your own schema definition. With this new schema, you can pass it as the `richTextSchema` option when instantiate the `StoryblokClient` class. You **must** follow the [default schema](https://github.com/storyblok/storyblok-js-client/blob/master/source/schema.js) to do this.

Below, you can check an example:

~~~javascript
const StoryblokClient = require('storyblok-js-client')

// the default schema copied and updated
const MySchema = require('./my-schema')

let client = new StoryblokClient({
  accessToken: 'WcdDcNgDm59K72EbsQg8Lgtt',
  richTextSchema: MySchema
})

client.richTextResolver.render(data)
~~~

If you just want to change the way a specific tag is rendered you can import the default schema and extend it. Following an example that will render headlines with classes:

Instead of `<p>Normal headline</p><h3><span class="margin-bottom-fdsafdsada">Styled headline</span></h3>` it will render `<p>Normal headline</p><h3 class="margin-bottom-fdsafdsada">Styled headline</h3>`.

~~~javascript

const RichTextResolver = require('storyblok-js-client/dist/richTextResolver')
const MySchema = require('storyblok-js-client/dist/schema')

MySchema.nodes.heading = function(node) {
  let attrs = {}

  if (node.content &&
      node.content.length === 1 &&
      node.content[0].marks &&
      node.content[0].marks.length === 1 &&
      node.content[0].marks[0].type === 'styled') {
    attrs = node.content[0].marks[0].attrs
    delete node.content[0].marks
  }

  return {
    tag: [{
      tag: `h${node.attrs.level}`,
      attrs: attrs
    }]
  }
}

let rteResolver = new RichTextResolver(MySchema)
let rendered = rteResolver.render({
  "content": [
    {
      "content": [
        {
          "text": "Normal headline",
          "type": "text"
        }
      ],
      "type": "paragraph"
    },
    {
      "attrs": {
        "level": 3
      },
      "content": [
        {
          "marks": [
            {
              "attrs": {
                "class": "margin-bottom-fdsafdsada"
              },
              "type": "styled"
            }
          ],
          "text": "Styled headline",
          "type": "text"
        }
      ],
      "type": "heading"
    }
  ],
  "type": "doc"
})

console.log(rendered)
~~~

## 🔗 Related Links

* **[Storyblok & Javascript on GitHub](https://github.com/search?q=org%3Astoryblok+topic%3Ajavascript)**: Check all of our Javascript open source repos;
* **[Technology Hub](https://www.storyblok.com/technologies?utm_source=github.com&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=storyblok-js-client)**: We prepared technology hubs so that you can find selected beginner tutorials, videos, boilerplates, and even cheatsheets all in one place;
* **[Storyblok CLI](https://github.com/storyblok/storyblok)**: A simple CLI for scaffolding Storyblok projects and fieldtypes.

## ℹ️ More Resources

### Support

* Bugs or Feature Requests? [Submit an issue](../../../issues/new);

* Do you have questions about Storyblok or you need help? [Join our Discord Community](https://discord.gg/jKrbAMz).

### Contributing

Please see our [contributing guidelines](https://github.com/storyblok/.github/blob/master/contributing.md) and our [code of conduct](https://www.storyblok.com/trust-center#code-of-conduct?utm_source=github.com&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=storyblok-js-client).
This project use [semantic-release](https://semantic-release.gitbook.io/semantic-release/) for generate new versions by using commit messages and we use the Angular Convention to naming the commits. Check [this question](https://semantic-release.gitbook.io/semantic-release/support/faq#how-can-i-change-the-type-of-commits-that-trigger-a-release) about it in semantic-release FAQ.
